.TH "xcalib" 1 "December 14, 2023" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
xcalib v0.11.0 \- Monitor Calibration Loader
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxcalib\fR ICC_FILE_NAME
.br
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-c\fR \fB\-d\fR \fISTRING\fR \fB\-s\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-o\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-i\fR \fB\-d\fR \fISTRING\fR \fB\-s\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-o\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-p\fR\fI[=FORMAT]\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] ICC_FILE_NAME | \fB\-a\fR
.br
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-g\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-b\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-k\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-d\fR \fISTRING\fR \fB\-s\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-o\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-p\fR\fI[=FORMAT]\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] ICC_FILE_NAME | \fB\-a\fR
.br
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-R\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-G\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-B\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-d\fR \fISTRING\fR \fB\-s\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-S\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-H\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-I\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-C\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-D\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-p\fR\fI[=FORMAT]\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] ICC_FILE_NAME | \fB\-a\fR
.br
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-p\fR\fI[=FORMAT]\fR \fB\-d\fR \fISTRING\fR \fB\-s\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-o\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-h\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR \fB\-V\fR \fB\-\-render\fR \fISTRING\fR [\fB\-v\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The tool loads ’vcgt’‐tag of ICC profiles to the server using the XRandR/XVidMode/GDI Extension in order to load calibrate curves to your graphics card.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS
Set basic parameters
.br
\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-display\fR \fISTRING\fR	host:dpy
.br
\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-screen\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Screen Number
.br
\fB\-o\fR|\fB\-\-output\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Output Number
.RS
It appears in the order as listed in xrandr tool.
.RE
\fB\-a\fR|\fB\-\-alter\fR	Alter Table
.RS
Works according to parameters without ICC Profile.
.RE
\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-noaction\fR	Do not alter video-LUTs.
.RS
Work's best in conjunction with -v!
.RE
\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-printramps\fR\fI[=FORMAT]\fR	Print Values on stdout.
.br
	\fB\-p\fR TEXT		# TEXT
.br
	\fB\-p\fR SVG		# SVG
.br
\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-\-loss\fR	Print error introduced by applying ramps to stdout.
.br
.SS
Assign
\fBxcalib\fR ICC_FILE_NAME
.br
\fIICC_FILE_NAME\fR	File Name of a ICC Profile
.br
.SS
Clear
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-c\fR \fB\-d\fR \fISTRING\fR \fB\-s\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-o\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-clear\fR	Clear Gamma LUT
.RS
Reset the Video Card Gamma Table (VCGT) to linear values.
.RE
.SS
Invert
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-i\fR \fB\-d\fR \fISTRING\fR \fB\-s\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-o\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-p\fR\fI[=FORMAT]\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] ICC_FILE_NAME | \fB\-a\fR
.br
\fB\-i\fR|\fB\-\-invert\fR	Invert the LUT
.br
.SS
Overall Appearance
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-g\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-b\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-k\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-d\fR \fISTRING\fR \fB\-s\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-o\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-p\fR\fI[=FORMAT]\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] ICC_FILE_NAME | \fB\-a\fR
.br
\fB\-g\fR|\fB\-\-gamma\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Gamma (NUMBER:1 [≥0.1 ≤5 Δ0.1])
.RS
Global gamma correction value (use 2.2 for WinXP Color Control-like behaviour)
.RE
\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-\-brightness\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Lightness Percentage (NUMBER:0 [≥0 ≤99 Δ1])
.br
\fB\-k\fR|\fB\-\-contrast\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Contrast Percentage (NUMBER:100 [≥1 ≤100 Δ1])
.RS
Set maximum value relative to brightness.
.RE
.SS
Per Channel Appearance
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-R\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-G\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-B\fR \fINUMBER\fR \fB\-d\fR \fISTRING\fR \fB\-s\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-S\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-H\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-I\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-C\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-D\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-p\fR\fI[=FORMAT]\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] ICC_FILE_NAME | \fB\-a\fR
.br
\fB\-R\fR|\fB\-\-red-gamma\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Red Gamma  (NUMBER:1 [≥0.1 ≤5 Δ0.1])
.br
\fB\-S\fR|\fB\-\-red-brightness\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Red Brightness Percentage (NUMBER:0 [≥0 ≤99 Δ1])
.br
\fB\-T\fR|\fB\-\-red-contrast\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Red Contrast Percentage (NUMBER:100 [≥1 ≤100 Δ1])
.RS
Set maximum value relative to brightness.
.RE
\fB\-G\fR|\fB\-\-green-gamma\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Green Gamma  (NUMBER:1 [≥0.1 ≤5 Δ0.1])
.br
\fB\-H\fR|\fB\-\-green-brightness\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Green Brightness Percentage (NUMBER:0 [≥0 ≤99 Δ1])
.br
\fB\-I\fR|\fB\-\-green-contrast\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Green Contrast Percentage (NUMBER:100 [≥1 ≤100 Δ1])
.RS
Set maximum value relative to brightness.
.RE
\fB\-B\fR|\fB\-\-blue-gamma\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Blue Gamma  (NUMBER:1 [≥0.1 ≤5 Δ0.1])
.br
\fB\-C\fR|\fB\-\-blue-brightness\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Blue Brightness Percentage (NUMBER:0 [≥0 ≤99 Δ1])
.br
\fB\-D\fR|\fB\-\-blue-contrast\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify Blue Contrast Percentage (NUMBER:100 [≥1 ≤100 Δ1])
.RS
Set maximum value relative to brightness.
.RE
.SS
Show
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-p\fR\fI[=FORMAT]\fR \fB\-d\fR \fISTRING\fR \fB\-s\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-o\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-printramps\fR\fI[=FORMAT]\fR	Print Values on stdout.
.br
	\fB\-p\fR TEXT		# TEXT
.br
	\fB\-p\fR SVG		# SVG
.br
.SS
General options
\fBxcalib\fR \fB\-h\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR \fB\-V\fR \fB\-\-render\fR \fISTRING\fR [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR	Print help text
.RS
Show usage information and hints for the tool.
.RE
	\fB\-h\fR -		# Full Help : Print help for all groups
.br
	\fB\-h\fR synopsis		# Synopsis : List groups - Show all groups including syntax
.br
\fB\-\-render\fR \fISTRING\fR	Render	
.br
\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR	Version
.br
\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR	Verbose
.br
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
DISPLAY
.br
Under X11 systems this variable will hold the display name as used for the -d and -s option.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Assign the VCGT curves of a ICC profile to a screen
.br
xcalib ‐d :0 ‐s 0 ‐v profile_with_vcgt_tag.icc
.TP
Reset a screens hardware LUT in order to do a calibration
.br
xcalib ‐d :0 ‐s 0 ‐c
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
oyjl-args(1)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Dohla <stefan AT doehla DOT de> http://www.etg.e‐technik.uni‐erlangen.de/web/doe/xcalib/

